An
hello this is Kirill from forexboat dot com.
And welcome back to the course on testing and optimization in meditative for into this tutorial we will
be talking about importing Dadda into meditative form.
So there are three main ways of importing historical data into the platform and these are using the
home key using medical Roadstar and using third party data.
So let's go ahead and start with the first one using the home.
If we open any chart with say Canadian dollar Japanese yen as you can see it's waiting for update.
Meaning that the data initial data is loading and the chart hasn't been opened before.
So what we wanted to do here is want to unclick auto scroll.
We want to go to Tools Options in options we want to set in Max in the charts tab.
You want to set max bars in history to the maximum Max bars and charged to the maximum as well.
That will make sure that Medicare is not restricting you from downloading any data so you click OK.
And if you go to Tools Options again you'll check you'll see that monitor for has automatically changed
these values to the maximum.
We're going to go back.
And here we're going to scroll to the left and what you'll see is that first the scrolling is quite
smooth but then it becomes chunky like now.
And what that means is that we've reached the edge of our download a dot on the end and whenever we
scroll more to the left Ameritrade or for he is requesting additional data from the trade server and
you can check that by going to the History Center.
At that point if you go to Tools history center or just click to a new keyboard and you go to the Canadian
Museum of superior you'll see that the one hour time frame is highlighted meaning that only for this
time frame we've received data.
So if you go here and you go to the bottom you'll see that the latest we have right now is July 2013
.
Let's close that let's scroll a bit bit more.
And now we go back tools History Center and if we scroll down now we can see that it's May 2013.
So we can take advantage of that and download daughter from the History Center all from the trade server
by the example of that 15 minute time frame by just clicking the home button the home button does exactly
the same as scrolling to the left.
Just make sure you have this or scroll unchecked because otherwise that will interfere.
Process A scroll to the left.
So if I'm holding the homepage down right now and as you can see the chart is flying through the dates
meaning more and more data is being downloaded.
And of course at some point you will hit a limit and that's just because there isn't any more water
on the trade server the trade servers tend to delete data that's too old because then because of trying
to hide something but because it's inefficient for them to store large volumes of thoughted can significantly
impact their bandwidth if all the traders will start downloading it and that can impact processing times
of your orders.
We don't want that.
And also just make sure you have zoomed out to the maximum that allows you to scroll through the data
faster so you can see I've gone quite far and gone all the way to October 2012.
Usually they'll be a restriction of depending on the chart time frame maybe a year or maybe over several
months.
So in this case it's about two years which is quite generous from on the brokerage side and you can't
go any further.
That's a very simple method.
And if that's if you can get sufficient data for your testing that way then please go ahead.
That is probably the most accurate data that you will get because it is actually from your broker.
Do bear in mind that if you are using every tick model then you have to do this process for all of the
timeframes that are below the time from where you're going to be testing.
So that includes a 1 in 5 and 15 and so on all the way up to your designated time frame.
So that was the first no way of doubling data.
Let's look at the other ones so now we have the medical Loadstar medical start implies that we get data
from medico's.
So if we go to history center and we pick a currency pair here which I haven't looked at for example
euro Australian dollar go to the one minute timeframe as you can see it's empty right now.
Bit of data will download from the broker about what we can do here.
We can click this download button.
Give us a warning saying that we're about to download data from the medicore software corporation history
center but our county is open with somebody else that just basically means that there will be discrepancies
between the two data sets.
And so you have to take that into account because it can significantly affect your expert Wise's when
testing them on small timeframes.
However if you do too if you are planning on testing on high timeframes and generally that shouldn't
really impact your expert advisers and give you a good indicative result of what you can expect.
And that's because Forex is is a common market.
And even though there can be slight fluctuations generally the trends should be very similar even in
different data sets and you can use that to advantage.
However do be careful when using the medico's quotes data.
All right so that took a couple of minutes for me I think it took about 10 or maybe even 15 minutes
a day it is quite a lengthy process.
But if you scroll down here you'll see that we have one minute daughter for this currency bill all the
way from 2004 which is incredible.
It's over for over 10 years of daughter and that that should be plenty for any kind of test analysis
.
So now what you can do is if you click download again click OK.
What will happen is that because all of this data is already downloaded and this is an interesting trick
Ameritrade for all those that is already downloaded.
And if you do it like right away that means that there's no new virus that are expected to come in.
Then you'll get this message saying that there are no new daughter for symbol euro strength.
Bill do you want to recalculate all the time.
Friends and here you click yes.
And what that will do is it will actually recalculate all of the time frames for this currency pair
.
And if you go to any of the time frames you'll see that you have this data from 2004.
So there you go.
There once again there it is.
And any time frame of this currency.
It's all there it's all being calculated from the one minute time frame.
That's why it's good to download the one time frame first.
So there you go that's how you get a lot of data for your indic. testing and Medicare for hour repeated
indic. because the results of these back Tests can be different to what you'll see on the real servers
.
However that's not always the case and sometimes this method is appropriate.
So I think that's enough for today.
We've covered the first two methods and the next a total took about important third party data into
Ameritrade four.
Thanks for watching and I'll look forward to seeing you on the next tutorial.
Until then Happy training